[AIRFLOW-XXX] add docs showing usage of `Connection.get_uri` (#6863)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/howto/connection/index.rst

Modify the connection properties and click the ``Save`` button to save your
changes.

Storing a Connection in Environment Variables
------------------------------------------------

The environment variable naming convention is ``AIRFLOW_CONN_<conn_id>``, all uppercase.

So if your connection id is ``my_prod_db`` then the variable name should be ``AIRFLOW_CONN_MY_PROD_DB``.

.. note::

    There is only one underscore surrounding ``CONN``.  This is in contrast with the way ``airflow.cfg``
    parameters are stored, where two underscores surround the config section name.

The value of this environment variable must use airflow's URI format for connections.  See the section
:ref:`Generating a Connection URI <generating_connection_uri>` for more details.

Using .bashrc (or similar)
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> If storing the environment variable in something like ``~/.bashrc``, you would add it ike so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If storing the environment variable in something like ``~/.bashrc``, add it as follow:
```

Using docker .env
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

If using with a docker ``.env`` file, you may need to remove the single quotes.

.. code-block::

    AIRFLOW_CONN_MY_PROD_DATABASE=my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2

Creating a Connection from the CLI
----------------------------------

You may add a connection to the database from the CLI.

Obtain the URI for your connection (see :ref:`Generating a Connection URI <generating_connection_uri>`).

Then add connection like so:

.. code-block:: bash

    airflow connections add --conn_id 'my_prod_db' --conn_uri 'my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2'

Alternatively you may specify each parameter individually:

.. code-block:: bash

    airflow connections add \
        --conn_id 'my_prod_db' \
        --login 'login' \
        --password 'password' \
        ...

Connection URI format
---------------------

In general, Airflow's URI format is like so:

.. code-block::

    my-conn-type://my-login:my-password@my-host:5432/my-schema?param1=val1&param2=val2

.. note::

>     The params param1 and param2 are just examples; you may supply arbitrary urlencoded json-serializable data there.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    The params ``param1`` and ``param2`` are just examples; you may supply arbitrary urlencoded json-serializable data there.
```

Then add connection like so:

.. code-block:: bash

    airflow connections add --conn_id 'my_prod_db' --conn_uri 'my-conn-type://login:password@host:port/schema?param1=val1&param2=val2'

Alternatively you may specify each parameter individually:

.. code-block:: bash

    airflow connections add \
        --conn_id 'my_prod_db' \
        --login 'login' \
        --password 'password' \
        ...

Connection URI format
---------------------

In general, Airflow's URI format is like so:

.. code-block::

    my-conn-type://my-login:my-password@my-host:5432/my-schema?param1=val1&param2=val2

.. note::

    The params param1 and param2 are just examples; you may supply arbitrary urlencoded json-serializable data there.

The above URI would produce a ``Connection`` object equivalent to the following:

.. code-block:: python

    Connection(
        conn_id='',
        conn_type='my_conn_type',
        login='my-login',
        password='my-password',
        host='my-host',
        port=5432,
        schema='my-schema',
        extra=json.dumps(dict(param1='val1', param2='val2'))
    )

You can verify a URI is parsed correctly like so:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: pycon
```

(e.g. ``google-compute-platform`` if ``conn_type`` is ``google_compute_platform``).
Query parameters are parsed to one-dimensional dict and then used to fill extra.

Generating a connection URI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Building the URI for a connection can be tricky.  To make it easier, the
:py:class:`~airflow.models.connection.Connection` class has a convenience method
:py:meth:`~airflow.models.connection.Connection.get_uri`.  It can be used like so:

.. code-block:: python

    from airflow.models.connection import Connection

    c = Connection(
        conn_id='some_conn',
        conn_type='mysql',
        host='myhost.com',
        login='myname',
        password='mypassword',
        extra=json.dumps(dict(this_param='some val', that_param='other val*')),
    )
    print(f"AIRFLOW_CONN_{c.conn_id.upper()}='{c.get_uri()}'")

> 

Reviewer: Can you add an example output of such URI

Author: good idea
i have amended
thanks for the review

(e.g. ``google-compute-platform`` if ``conn_type`` is ``google_compute_platform``).
Query parameters are parsed to one-dimensional dict and then used to fill extra.

Generating a connection URI
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Building the URI for a connection can be tricky.  To make it easier, the
:py:class:`~airflow.models.connection.Connection` class has a convenience method
:py:meth:`~airflow.models.connection.Connection.get_uri`.  It can be used like so:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.. code-block:: pycon
```
Reference: https://pygments.org/docs/lexers/#pygments.lexers.python.PythonConsoleLexer

Author: cool! thank you will do this
